# belly-button-challenge

In this challenge, I built an interactive dashboard to explore a dataset (generated by NC State's Public Science Lab) which catalogs microbes that
colonize human navels. The dataset reveals that a small handful of microbial species (also called operational taxonomic units, or OTUs in the study) were
present in more than 70% of people, while the rest were relatively rare.

### Selector

The selector allows a user to choose a test subject from a dropdown menu. The initial page populates the charts with information from subject ID 940.


### Demographic Info

This displays the metadata for the selected individual which includes their ID number, ethnicity, gender, age, location, bbtype, and wfreq.


### Bar Chart

This displays the top 10 OTUs found in the selected individual as a horizontal bar chart. Each of the top ten OTUs is measured by their sample values,
and includes hover text showing the Bacterial label for that OTU.


### Bubble Chart

This displays a bubble chart that displays each individual in the dataset. The x-value is their OTU ID, the y-values are their sample values, bubble
size is a function of that OTU ID's sample values, marker color is by OTU ID, and includes hover text for the Bacterial label for that OTU.


## References

Hulcr, J. et al. (2012) A Jungle in There: Bacteria in Belly Buttons are Highly Diverse, but Predictable. 
Retrieved from: http://robdunnlab.com/projects/belly-button-biodiversity/results-and-data/Links to an external site.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5182772/append-option-to-select-menu

https://plotly.com/javascript/bubble-charts/



